---
layout: post
title:  "Emotional Neglect"
date:   2023-05-18 18:40:15 +0530
categories: emotion
---

**Thoughts on life**
<p style="text-align:justify">These days, I find myself overwhelmed by my tendency to overthink and my constant anxiety about almost everything. Managing my thoughts and emotions is no easy task, and I often question why these struggles persist at this particular stage of my life. While I've experienced ups and downs before, there is a notable difference now: it's no longer just about me. I've recently come to realize that I exhibit behaviors of emotional neglect, particularly towards those in my inner circle. Perhaps it's because I never learned how to handle my own emotions, rather than attributing it solely to lack of instruction. In a way, I've been protecting myself by avoiding the multitude of intense emotions that come with human connection—a means of escape. I am grateful for those who have chosen to step back instead of extending a helping hand, as it is through this process that I've been left with the purest individuals who have gone above and beyond to lift me up. If they had followed the same path as I did, the situation would have worsened. When it comes to opening up emotionally, I am cautious. It's not something I do haphazardly; I need to be certain that the other person possesses greater mental strength than I do. I will always be selective in that regard. Having a strong support system brings clarity to my thoughts, grounds me, and fills me with immense happiness. I am content with my small circle of precious individuals.</centre></p>

